.\" pkgdrop - Universal package installer for Arch Linux
.TH PKGDROP 1 "2026-06-11" "pkgdrop 2.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pkgdrop \- universal package installer for Arch Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pkgdrop
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.IR file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pkgdrop
installs packages from multiple formats (.tar.xz, .deb, .AppImage, .pkg.tar.*, .rpm) on Arch Linux with automatic dependency management.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List installed packages.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-uninstall " " \fIname\fR
Uninstall a package by name.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-audit
Audit registry vs filesystem consistency.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-clean
Remove broken symlinks and orphaned packages.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry-run
Preview installation without making changes.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-verbose
Show detailed output during installation.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip all confirmation prompts.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DEBUG=1
Enable debug output.
.TP
.B VERBOSE=1
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.B ASK_DEPENDENCIES=0
Skip dependency installation prompts.
.TP
.B PKGDROP_DIR=\fIpath\fR
Override installation directory (default: ~/.local/opt).
.TP
.B PKGDROP_MAX_SIZE=\fIbytes\fR
Maximum file size allowed (default: 1073741824).
.TP
.B PKGDROP_LOG=\fIpath\fR
Log file path (default: ~/.local/share/pkgdrop/install.log).
.SH FORMATS
.TP
.B *.pkg.tar.*
Pacman package format. Requires sudo.
.TP
.B *.tar.xz
Portable tarball. Extracted to ~/.local/opt/ with symlink in ~/.local/bin/.
.TP
.B *.deb
Debian package. Converted via debtap (optional dependency).
.TP
.B *.AppImage
AppImage binary. Copied to ~/.local/bin/.
.TP
.B *.rpm
RPM package. Converted via alien (optional dependency).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/opt/
Default installation directory.
.TP
.I ~/.local/bin/
Symlink directory for installed binaries.
.TP
.I ~/.config/pkgdrop/config
Configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/pkgdrop/install.log
Installation log file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Install a tarball:
.B pkgdrop app.tar.xz
.PP
Preview installation:
.B pkgdrop -n app.tar.xz
.PP
Uninstall a package:
.B pkgdrop -u app
.PP
Audit registry consistency:
.B pkgdrop --audit
.PP
Audit and remove orphans:
.B pkgdrop --audit --prune
.PP
List installed packages:
.B pkgdrop --list
.SH AUTHOR
theyonecodes <theyonecodes@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pacman (8),
.BR debtap (1),
.BR alien (1)
